# ERC7821

Minimal batch executor mixin.


This contract can be inherited to create fully-fledged smart accounts.
If you merely want to combine approve-swap transactions into a single transaction
using [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702), you will need to implement basic
[ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) `isValidSignature` functionality to
validate signatures with `ecrecover` against the EOA address. This is necessary because some
signature checks skip `ecrecover` if the signer has code. For a basic EOA batch executor,
please refer to [BEBE](https://github.com/vectorized/bebe), which inherits from this class.

<b>Inherits:</b>  

- [`accounts/Receiver.sol`](accounts/receiver.md)  


<!-- customintro:start --><!-- customintro:end -->

## Structs

### Call

```solidity
struct Call {
    address target; // Replaced as `address(this)` if `address(0)`.
    uint256 value; // Amount of native currency (i.e. Ether) to send.
    bytes data; // Calldata to send with the call.
}
```

Call struct for the `execute` function.

## Custom Errors

### UnsupportedExecutionMode()

```solidity
error UnsupportedExecutionMode()
```

The execution mode is not supported.

## Execution Operations

### execute(bytes32,bytes)

```solidity
function execute(bytes32 mode, bytes calldata executionData)
    public
    payable
    virtual
```

Executes the calls in `executionData`.   
Reverts and bubbles up error if any call fails.   
`executionData` encoding:   
- If `opData` is empty, `executionData` is simply `abi.encode(calls)`.   
- Else, `executionData` is `abi.encode(calls, opData)`.   
  See: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7579   
Supported modes:   
- `bytes32(0x01000000000000000000...)`: does not support optional `opData`.   
- `bytes32(0x01000000000078210001...)`: supports optional `opData`.   
Authorization checks:   
- If `opData` is empty, the implementation SHOULD require that   
  `msg.sender == address(this)`.   
- If `opData` is not empty, the implementation SHOULD use the signature   
  encoded in `opData` to determine if the caller can perform the execution.   
- If `msg.sender` is an authorized entry point, then `execute` MAY accept   
  calls from the entry point, and MAY use `opData` for specialized logic.   
`opData` may be used to store additional data for authentication,   
paymaster data, gas limits, etc.

### supportsExecutionMode(bytes32)

```solidity
function supportsExecutionMode(bytes32 mode)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (bool result)
```

Provided for execution mode support detection.

## Internal Helpers

### _executionModeId(bytes32)

```solidity
function _executionModeId(bytes32 mode)
    internal
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 id)
```

0: invalid mode, 1: no `opData` support, 2: with `opData` support.

### _execute(bytes32,bytes,Call[],bytes)

```solidity
function _execute(
    bytes32 mode,
    bytes calldata executionData,
    Call[] calldata calls,
    bytes calldata opData
) internal virtual
```

Executes the calls.   
Reverts and bubbles up error if any call fails.   
The `mode` and `executionData` are passed along in case there's a need to use them.

### _execute(Call[],bytes32)

```solidity
function _execute(Call[] calldata calls, bytes32 extraData)
    internal
    virtual
```

Executes the calls.   
Reverts and bubbles up error if any call fails.   
`extraData` can be any supplementary data (e.g. a memory pointer, some hash).

### _execute(address,uint256,bytes,bytes32)

```solidity
function _execute(
    address target,
    uint256 value,
    bytes calldata data,
    bytes32 extraData
) internal virtual
```

Executes the call.   
Reverts and bubbles up error if any call fails.   
`extraData` can be any supplementary data (e.g. a memory pointer, some hash).

### _get(Call[],uint256)

```solidity
function _get(Call[] calldata calls, uint256 i)
    internal
    view
    virtual
    returns (address target, uint256 value, bytes calldata data)
```

Convenience function for getting `calls[i]`, without bounds checks.