# ERC4626

Simple ERC4626 tokenized Vault implementation.




<b>Inherits:</b>  

- [`tokens/ERC20.sol`](tokens/erc20.md)  


<!-- customintro:start --><!-- customintro:end -->

## Constants

### _DEFAULT_UNDERLYING_DECIMALS

```solidity
uint8 internal constant _DEFAULT_UNDERLYING_DECIMALS = 18
```

The default underlying decimals.

### _DEFAULT_DECIMALS_OFFSET

```solidity
uint8 internal constant _DEFAULT_DECIMALS_OFFSET = 0
```

The default decimals offset.

## Custom Errors

### DepositMoreThanMax()

```solidity
error DepositMoreThanMax()
```

Cannot deposit more than the max limit.

### MintMoreThanMax()

```solidity
error MintMoreThanMax()
```

Cannot mint more than the max limit.

### WithdrawMoreThanMax()

```solidity
error WithdrawMoreThanMax()
```

Cannot withdraw more than the max limit.

### RedeemMoreThanMax()

```solidity
error RedeemMoreThanMax()
```

Cannot redeem more than the max limit.

## Events

### Deposit(address,address,uint256,uint256)

```solidity
event Deposit(
    address indexed by,
    address indexed owner,
    uint256 assets,
    uint256 shares
)
```

Emitted during a mint call or deposit call.

### Withdraw(address,address,address,uint256,uint256)

```solidity
event Withdraw(
    address indexed by,
    address indexed to,
    address indexed owner,
    uint256 assets,
    uint256 shares
)
```

Emitted during a withdraw call or redeem call.

## ERC4626 Constants

### _decimalsOffset()

```solidity
function _decimalsOffset() internal view virtual returns (uint8)
```

Override to return a non-zero value to make the inflation attack even more unfeasible.   
Only used when {_useVirtualShares} returns true.   
Default: 0.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### _useVirtualShares()

```solidity
function _useVirtualShares() internal view virtual returns (bool)
```

Returns whether virtual shares will be used to mitigate the inflation attack.   
See: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/issues/3706   
Override to return true or false.   
Default: true.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### decimals()

```solidity
function decimals() public view virtual override(ERC20) returns (uint8)
```

Returns the decimals places of the token.   
- MUST NOT revert.

## Asset Decimals Getter Helper

### _tryGetAssetDecimals(address)

```solidity
function _tryGetAssetDecimals(address underlying)
    internal
    view
    returns (bool success, uint8 result)
```

Helper function to get the decimals of the underlying asset.   
Useful for setting the return value of `_underlyingDecimals` during initialization.   
If the retrieval succeeds, `success` will be true, and `result` will hold the result.   
Otherwise, `success` will be false, and `result` will be zero.   
Example usage:   
```solidity   
(bool success, uint8 result) = _tryGetAssetDecimals(underlying);   
_decimals = success ? result : _DEFAULT_UNDERLYING_DECIMALS;   
```

## Accounting Logic

### totalAssets()

```solidity
function totalAssets() public view virtual returns (uint256 assets)
```

Returns the total amount of the underlying asset managed by the Vault.   
- SHOULD include any compounding that occurs from the yield.   
- MUST be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### convertToShares(uint256)

```solidity
function convertToShares(uint256 assets)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Returns the amount of shares that the Vault will exchange for the amount of   
assets provided, in an ideal scenario where all conditions are met.   
- MUST NOT be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.   
- MUST NOT show any variations depending on the caller.   
- MUST NOT reflect slippage or other on-chain conditions, during the actual exchange.   
- MUST NOT revert.   
Note: This calculation MAY NOT reflect the "per-user" price-per-share, and instead   
should reflect the "average-user's" price-per-share, i.e. what the average user should   
expect to see when exchanging to and from.

### convertToAssets(uint256)

```solidity
function convertToAssets(uint256 shares)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Returns the amount of assets that the Vault will exchange for the amount of   
shares provided, in an ideal scenario where all conditions are met.   
- MUST NOT be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.   
- MUST NOT show any variations depending on the caller.   
- MUST NOT reflect slippage or other on-chain conditions, during the actual exchange.   
- MUST NOT revert.   
Note: This calculation MAY NOT reflect the "per-user" price-per-share, and instead   
should reflect the "average-user's" price-per-share, i.e. what the average user should   
expect to see when exchanging to and from.

### previewDeposit(uint256)

```solidity
function previewDeposit(uint256 assets)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their deposit   
at the current block, given current on-chain conditions.   
- MUST return as close to and no more than the exact amount of Vault shares that   
  will be minted in a deposit call in the same transaction, i.e. deposit should   
  return the same or more shares as `previewDeposit` if call in the same transaction.   
- MUST NOT account for deposit limits like those returned from `maxDeposit` and should   
  always act as if the deposit will be accepted, regardless of approvals, etc.   
- MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of this.   
- MUST not revert.   
Note: Any unfavorable discrepancy between `convertToShares` and `previewDeposit` SHOULD   
be considered slippage in share price or some other type of condition, meaning   
the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

### previewMint(uint256)

```solidity
function previewMint(uint256 shares)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their mint   
at the current block, given current on-chain conditions.   
- MUST return as close to and no fewer than the exact amount of assets that   
  will be deposited in a mint call in the same transaction, i.e. mint should   
  return the same or fewer assets as `previewMint` if called in the same transaction.   
- MUST NOT account for mint limits like those returned from `maxMint` and should   
  always act as if the mint will be accepted, regardless of approvals, etc.   
- MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of this.   
- MUST not revert.   
Note: Any unfavorable discrepancy between `convertToAssets` and `previewMint` SHOULD   
be considered slippage in share price or some other type of condition,   
meaning the depositor will lose assets by minting.

### previewWithdraw(uint256)

```solidity
function previewWithdraw(uint256 assets)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their withdrawal   
at the current block, given the current on-chain conditions.   
- MUST return as close to and no fewer than the exact amount of Vault shares that   
  will be burned in a withdraw call in the same transaction, i.e. withdraw should   
  return the same or fewer shares as `previewWithdraw` if call in the same transaction.   
- MUST NOT account for withdrawal limits like those returned from `maxWithdraw` and should   
  always act as if the withdrawal will be accepted, regardless of share balance, etc.   
- MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of this.   
- MUST not revert.   
Note: Any unfavorable discrepancy between `convertToShares` and `previewWithdraw` SHOULD   
be considered slippage in share price or some other type of condition,   
meaning the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

### previewRedeem(uint256)

```solidity
function previewRedeem(uint256 shares)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their redemption   
at the current block, given current on-chain conditions.   
- MUST return as close to and no more than the exact amount of assets that   
  will be withdrawn in a redeem call in the same transaction, i.e. redeem should   
  return the same or more assets as `previewRedeem` if called in the same transaction.   
- MUST NOT account for redemption limits like those returned from `maxRedeem` and should   
  always act as if the redemption will be accepted, regardless of approvals, etc.   
- MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of this.   
- MUST NOT revert.   
Note: Any unfavorable discrepancy between `convertToAssets` and `previewRedeem` SHOULD   
be considered slippage in share price or some other type of condition,   
meaning the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

## Deposit / Withdrawal Limit Logic

### maxDeposit(address)

```solidity
function maxDeposit(address to)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 maxAssets)
```

Returns the maximum amount of the underlying asset that can be deposited   
into the Vault for `to`, via a deposit call.   
- MUST return a limited value if `to` is subject to some deposit limit.   
- MUST return `2**256-1` if there is no maximum limit.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### maxMint(address)

```solidity
function maxMint(address to)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 maxShares)
```

Returns the maximum amount of the Vault shares that can be minter for `to`,   
via a mint call.   
- MUST return a limited value if `to` is subject to some mint limit.   
- MUST return `2**256-1` if there is no maximum limit.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### maxWithdraw(address)

```solidity
function maxWithdraw(address owner)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 maxAssets)
```

Returns the maximum amount of the underlying asset that can be withdrawn   
from the `owner`'s balance in the Vault, via a withdraw call.   
- MUST return a limited value if `owner` is subject to some withdrawal limit or timelock.   
- MUST NOT revert.

### maxRedeem(address)

```solidity
function maxRedeem(address owner)
    public
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 maxShares)
```

Returns the maximum amount of Vault shares that can be redeemed   
from the `owner`'s balance in the Vault, via a redeem call.   
- MUST return a limited value if `owner` is subject to some withdrawal limit or timelock.   
- MUST return `balanceOf(owner)` otherwise.   
- MUST NOT revert.

## Deposit / Withdrawal Logic

### deposit(uint256,address)

```solidity
function deposit(uint256 assets, address to)
    public
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `to` by depositing exactly `assets`   
of underlying tokens.   
- MUST emit the `Deposit` event.   
- MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault   
  contract before the deposit execution, and are accounted for during deposit.   
- MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be deposited, such as due to deposit limit,   
  slippage, insufficient approval, etc.   
Note: Most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the   
Vault's underlying `asset` token.

### mint(uint256,address)

```solidity
function mint(uint256 shares, address to)
    public
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Mints exactly `shares` Vault shares to `to` by depositing `assets`   
of underlying tokens.   
- MUST emit the `Deposit` event.   
- MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault   
  contract before the mint execution, and are accounted for during mint.   
- MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be deposited, such as due to deposit limit,   
  slippage, insufficient approval, etc.   
Note: Most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the   
Vault's underlying `asset` token.

### withdraw(uint256,address,address)

```solidity
function withdraw(uint256 assets, address to, address owner)
    public
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Burns `shares` from `owner` and sends exactly `assets` of underlying tokens to `to`.   
- MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.   
- MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault   
  contract before the withdraw execution, and are accounted for during withdraw.   
- MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be withdrawn, such as due to withdrawal limit,   
  slippage, insufficient balance, etc.   
Note: Some implementations will require pre-requesting to the Vault before a withdrawal   
may be performed. Those methods should be performed separately.

### redeem(uint256,address,address)

```solidity
function redeem(uint256 shares, address to, address owner)
    public
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Burns exactly `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `to`.   
- MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.   
- MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault   
  contract before the redeem execution, and are accounted for during redeem.   
- MUST revert if all of shares cannot be redeemed, such as due to withdrawal limit,   
  slippage, insufficient balance, etc.   
Note: Some implementations will require pre-requesting to the Vault before a redeem   
may be performed. Those methods should be performed separately.

## Internal Helpers

### _deposit(address,address,uint256,uint256)

```solidity
function _deposit(address by, address to, uint256 assets, uint256 shares)
    internal
    virtual
```

For deposits and mints.   

Emits a `Deposit` event.

### _withdraw(address,address,address,uint256,uint256)

```solidity
function _withdraw(
    address by,
    address to,
    address owner,
    uint256 assets,
    uint256 shares
) internal virtual
```

For withdrawals and redemptions.   

Emits a `Withdraw` event.

### _initialConvertToShares(uint256)

```solidity
function _initialConvertToShares(uint256 assets)
    internal
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 shares)
```

Internal conversion function (from assets to shares) to apply when the Vault is empty.   
Only used when {_useVirtualShares} returns false.   
Note: Make sure to keep this function consistent with {_initialConvertToAssets}   
when overriding it.

### _initialConvertToAssets(uint256)

```solidity
function _initialConvertToAssets(uint256 shares)
    internal
    view
    virtual
    returns (uint256 assets)
```

Internal conversion function (from shares to assets) to apply when the Vault is empty.   
Only used when {_useVirtualShares} returns false.   
Note: Make sure to keep this function consistent with {_initialConvertToShares}   
when overriding it.

## Hooks To Override

### _beforeWithdraw(uint256,uint256)

```solidity
function _beforeWithdraw(uint256 assets, uint256 shares) internal virtual
```

Hook that is called before any withdrawal or redemption.

### _afterDeposit(uint256,uint256)

```solidity
function _afterDeposit(uint256 assets, uint256 shares) internal virtual
```

Hook that is called after any deposit or mint.